# dashing


# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  To write maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs, I try to consider the outcome that I'm trying to create with my functions. Then I break down the functions into smaller pieces so that each piece holds a smaller purpose. This way, the pieces when glued together, will fulfill the outcome I'm striving for, but more importantly, can also be reused later. With the CRUD Python module, we were able to used the Read functionality to connect to the dashboard widgets to create interactive graphs and charts that responded to the data state changes from what our mouse cursor selects. If we didn't use the module and instead build the CRUD functions right into the dashboard,--while it should be possible, and may possibly let us reach a functional product at first-- then it would create an inflexible program that would be hard to maintain and upgrade. Further functionalities may be difficult to implement, and functionalities that are no longer needed but may hold the core of our CRUD capabilities will make removing awkward. A lot of the power of modularity is in its flexibility, and adaptability for the uncertain future. Potential functionalities for this CRUD module: (1) Additional radio buttons for non-rescue specific dog queries. (2) Merging, importing, exporting the data. (3) Calculate future potentials by inputting 'what-if' scenerios and using the data to optimize for the future.  
    
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

  For the database and dashboard requirements, because I had to get these two connected, I had to make sure that the CRUD module was outputting workable data that the dashboard can display. While the CRUD module may be able to output the data on a console, it has no value if the frontend can't work with the datatype. This did come with unfamiliarity with Python, and Dash framework, but regardless it was a learning experience that I enjoyed and in the future, I'll inspect the necessary outputs required from the frontend before I finish the backend. 
    
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  The role of a computer scientist is to understand problems with mathematical abstractness so they can create structures or models that deals with incomprehensive amounts of data. By working with this data, they can use it to compute for the solution. The power of computation is that we save a lot of time. And because time for us is finite and one directional, it's our most precious resource. Grazioso Salvar requested help locating dogs to train for rescue missions. By querying the data we received, we located the animal shelters that match the specifications provided, thus making it obsolete or unnecessary for Grazioso to manually search every animal shelter in his proximity. To go even further, we can even query for dogs that available in the future by adjusting our computation. Example: One constraint that is necessary for specific rescue mission but can also strictly narrow our criteria is the age of the dogs. If our constraint ask for dogs between 20 weeks and 256 weeks, then we can simply adjust the age in weeks criteria to account for the future. So now we have data on available dogs for rescue missions for the present and future. 
